---
title: But I'm Still Here
tags: daily thoughts
---

Hi. It's been a while.

This week has started off less busy than usual, but it's still almost to the
point of unmanageability. Not yet though. I'm still trucking.

Artober has been a bust. I ended up completing 10 drawings, and severely lack
motivation to finish more. It wasn't the prompts, I liked the prompts, it was
the falling behind and eventually dropping out of the habit.

Math and Computer Science homework has been going very well, feeling good
making very clever solutions to these problems. But I sort of want to do other
stuff besides just Math and Computer Science homework, ya know?

## What Would Be Really Fun (right now at least)

When I'm bored but don't really have time to kill, I've been browsing [The
Mizuumi Wiki](https://wiki.gbl.gg/w/Main_Page), a wiki for niche/indie fighting
games. I found it by looking up resources for Skullgirls (last mentioned
[here](./2020-08-22-skullgirls.html)), but I clicked on the sidebar for other
games and found a lot of fun, weird, and interesting things.

So basically, I think it might be fun to contribute to that a bit. You know,
just find a fighting game that hasn't been touched a lot, figure out its
secrets, meditatively record footage of different moves, simple stuff. Not that
I have time for it right now.

### Other Games

My friend also shared some other cool fighting games with me: [Vernal
Edge](https://plusw.itch.io/vernal-edge-kickstarter-demo) and [Decline's
Drops](https://drazglb.itch.io/declines-drops). Both have Smash Bros.-like
combat while actually being a standard 2D platformer, which I think is a really
interesting concept and could actually work. Both of these demos are free, and
I definitely plan on trying these out when I have the time (which I do not
currently).

<hr/>

Anyways, that's all for now. I wish I could talk about what I'm doing on
homework more but that's a little of an academic integrity violation to post
solutions and stuff (which is kind of the only reason why I would talk about
it). Maybe I can talk about the CTF club I'm in next time?
