---
title: I Easily Get Lost In Cities
description: In which I detail my many misadventures getting lost in cities, both physically and metaphorically (mostly physically tbh).
tags: daily thoughts
---

Whoops, forgot to actually push to the site, in case you couldn't've guessed I
have been busy with my internship :P. Multiple post dump time!

<hr/>

I don't know if you've heard, but New York City is a _big_ city. There are many
skyscrapers in Manhattan (like the central island thing containing Central
Park), all bunched up right against each other. The streets are long and
gridlike, and sometimes the sun sets exactly in-line with them so you get to
fully see all the dust in the air.

At least where I'm staying, the streets are relatively clean, only a slight
amount of litter left out for the pidgeons. There have also only been a few
instances of crazy cars (in bike lanes, taking lefts into walk signs) and for
the most part because traffic moves so slowly anyways it's pretty safe to be a
pedestrian in that regard.

## Ok but like how do you get lost when the streets are all numbered?

Great question! I'm not entirely sure myself! I have a hypothesis:

> I usually navigate in relation to (non-sun) landmarks, and the buildings all
> occlude each other so that doesn't work out.

Especially in Central Park, where there aren't any marked roads you can see, it
was exceedingly easy for me to get lost. Not just once, but twice, I went out
for out-and-back runs there that ended up being out-and-out so I was double the
distance away... Learned my lesson there and now I run with Google Maps :P

However, this is just my go-to navigation mechanism; surely attempting to
actually see what corner I'm on would help me get where I want to go?

> I keep forgetting to orient myself at intersections, and have easily lost
> orientation when taking multiple turns.

Especially with east-west streets, I've gone very long blocks in the wrong
direction before realizing it (yes I know I could've just looked for the
shorter north-south directions, but remember i am dum)

> GPS/location services is _very_ spotty.

... which doesn't help with any of the above. I've heard it's because GPS
signals reflect off buildings and the supposed Wi-Fi/Bluetooth MAC
address-based location services never really panned out like it promised to.

## This Also Happened In Seattle

Oh yeah I should mention! The team I'm interning for had their calibration this
week in Seattle, so I was invited along for expensed business flights and hotel
:) Seattle is a neat city too (much smaller), had the best sushi of my life so
far there.

The place near my hotel had street grids at 45 degree offsets from each other,
navigating which was a bit funky. Overall, I did a lot better than NYC (only
got lost once!), possibly because there were easier-to-use landmarks, and also
possibly because I've gotten more in the habit of navigating grids.

I did not go up the Space Needle unfortunately, but I did go on the monorail
and light rail which were cool. Seeing it and hearing good things about Redmond
too is slightly making me consider west coast more... nah, east coast for lyfe
ðŸ˜¤
