---
title: A Strong Defense of Copyright
tags: daily thoughts, Writing
description: In which a friend and I have a discussion about how modern copyright has been affected by various forms of piracy and I become slowly convinced it may actually be bad
---

First this I want to note is this is <i>not</i> just my writing: this is a discussion my friend and I have a discussion about how modern copyright has been affected by various forms of piracy. I thought it was really interesting and got permission to post it here under a pseudonym, Corporate Shill (CS). I've distinguished between their words (in green, the color of Money) and mine (in an innocent blue).

</hr>

<div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Question from watching too much youtube: I've noticed that VPN ads have shifted
from security[^1] to talking about how British Netflix has different shows.

I assume the regional differences are due to license agreements with the rights
holders. How long until streaming services are compelled to take better steps
to confirm their client location, or until "choose your server country" VPNs
are targeted as a means of subverting restrictions or something?

[^1]: Good debunk video by Tom Scott: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WVDQEoe6ZWY>

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

That's already happened, there was this evil blog post about how Amazon was
partnering with a company to do exactly that (block VPN users)

<blockquote>

<https://twitter.com/geocomply/status/1522249780675551234>

GeoComply (@GeoComply) Millions of U.S. adults use VPNs to illegally access
streaming services in other countries. But you can easily block content pirates
with GeoGuard VPN and proxy detection via @aws @cloudfront.

</blockquote>

The original tweet and blog post was deleted, but there's a backup on
archive.org:
<https://web.archive.org/web/20220505221032/https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/media/blocking-illegal-viewers-from-streaming-services/>

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I love all the replies saying if you block this piracy they'll do more explicit
piracy.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

I mean they (the users) are literally still paying for the content! And I get
that licensing is a mess but ya to me this technology seems like revenue-losing
only.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Well they're _not_ paying for the content, they're paying for different
content, deciding what they think they should be paying for, and gaining access
by force.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

"Different content" well sorry if I can't control where I live...

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

The streaming service probably does better overall from a larger effective
library, but I can't imagine rights holders are happy to be paid for one thing
while providing another.

You can choose what to buy and not buy, or instead choose something not for
sale (on alternative platforms, individual sale, rental, etc). There are
arguments about pirating things not available for legitimate sale and whether
the region based licensing makes sense, but given the situation I don't think
blocking misuse is improper.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

"Paid for one thing while providing another" I can't pretend to understand how
finances work but I can't imagine how this would put licensers in a bad spot at
all; like they aren't actively providing anything.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

A better way to go about this could be to bind location to account and limit
how often it can change, idk why they don't.

To respond to "not actively providing anything", they (studios) have an up
front cost to produce a piece of media, which in exchange they get copyright to
the product. Maybe they want to sell to Netflix in the UK, but can get a good
deal in the US with a particular TV channel. Netflix pays less than a worldwide
license, (while the content is still available worldwide through VPNs), so the
rights holder gets less money, even assuming the US market is still fully
available.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Still not sure why the rightsholder didn't go for the thing that would make
them the most money in the first place?

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

The actual financial relationships are weird, it's like "can this company
continue to fund this studio under the assumption that they can produce
products that on average over their lifetime can produce a profit?", lots of
lag time and middlemen involved.

In the scenario I described, someone is willing to pay a premium rate, but only
in a certain region; that's the US TV channel operating in a single country
that wants an exclusive show to compete with regional and global channels and
services. The buyer (Netflix) doesn't want a worldwide license because of
language and broadcast regulations and transmission licenses and budget and
marketing scale or any number of possibilities, but the seller still wants to
access other regions that don't interfere.

idk how the separate netflixes and all work, I would assume they're all a
single interest, but as long as there are regional players in the market, I can
imagine regional contracts making sense.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

I now get why they would sell to a single streaming region (actually clears up
a lot of my confusion, thanks), but still don't see how region spoofing eats
into these profits?

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

In the case where there is a legitimate alternative delivery, you are
circumventing that.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Unless the legitimate alternate delivery is another pay-per-view streaming
service, hasn't the money has already been made? Like advertisers already paid
for ad slots based on average ratings and all.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

In my example the TV channel gets less than they paid for and Netflix gets
more.

The rights holder gets the same for completed sales but loses trust in future
deals.

Also think about it: where do the average ratings come from? :P

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

No clue, probably the cable box keeps track?

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I mean, they come from past statistics. By changing present statistics, you
change future averages.

It's another point of lag, but the effect still happens eventually.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Ah! That is true.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

The next season comes around, and the US TV channel can't trust the studio's
exclusivity contract not to be circumvented by VPN users and made worthless,
advertisers can't expect the old amount of impressions, the parent company of
the studio (if one exists) can't expect licenses of future products to be as
valuable.

I don't really like artificial exclusivity of media in general, but going
around it seems to just concentrate success in the streaming services that have
the weakest detection.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Just like capitalism intended ðŸ˜¤

That was a good explanation of why artificial exclusivity can be helpful for
studio longevity, but on moral grounds it feels weird ya

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Circumvention doesn't feel like a functional way of influencing the change you
actually want, just a short term financial imbalance until streaming services
change or stop getting sold.

Yeah if we're just going moral as a consumer, there's also a stance that you
can steal from any big company doing well ðŸ˜œ. Most of my Disney lately has been
basically pirated, thinking about it but I've also watched a lot less since
that habit started, and I probably would watch new stuff in theaters if the
situation was right.

"What are your crimes? comment below with your full name and address"

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Hello I torrent a lot

of Linux installers ðŸ˜Ž

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

:ooooo

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">
 also question: do you mind if I
put our discussion text on my blog? appropriately attributed of course

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

As an "Anonymized Corporate Shill"; feel free, but I have no research or
numbers or anything behind this, it's just a logical sequence that I think
would exist and explain what we see.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

I do like logical sequences and also the existing stuff has no rigor so it's
thematic :P

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

heck yeah

Also fun piracy regionality subject I see frequently: arcade games

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Round 1's "This machine should not be distributed outside Japan" lmao

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Lots of stuff is not even sold, individuals may not have operators in their
local area, and versions/games may go out of date and no longer have legitimate
purchase options for that exact product. It's a breeding ground for illegal
piracy.

Oh yeah they're also full of licensed content lmao I still never figured out
how that works

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Maybe small enough market that it doesn't have an impact on the bigger
licensing picture? And again the "not legally available" just creates new
(illegal resale) markets.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Like, Konami networking is by special contract with R1[^2] (and D&B[^3] to a
lesser extent), and on a technical level may work as an extension of Japan or
its own region.

[^2]: Round 1, an arcade franchise in the US

[^3]: Dave and Busters, a more well-known arcade franchise in the US

There's also the question that I think often gets ignored about loss of arcade
machine sales. Maybe Pop'n Music 4 isn't run because of newer versions
existing, or Museca being shut down entirely, but there are other experiences
like them.

If you weren't playing Chuni[^4] on data, at home, for free, whenever you
wanted, you might be making choices between steam offerings and local arcade
options, or even the new home game versions from Konami.

The standard for an "old" game in the community tends to be between 6 months
and a year, with game data being released when fairly similar games are still
being sold and operated.

[^4]:
    Short for [Chunithm](https://rhythm-cons.wiki/w/Chunithm), an arcade
    rythm game made by SEGA with open-source controllers

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

WOW that's fast turnover. Does this mean resale eats more or less into profits
compared to a longer release cycle?

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

TODO: reword the following: This common commitment to "n-1", i.e. releasing
full unlock updates for versions at least 1 behind current may work for those
who want the latest features now, but honestly getting game updates with full
3rd party server support and bonus features on a 6 month delay is insane.

Wacca is still live for a bit to my knowledge, but the community is already
deep into making a version compiling all versions, custom chart maker, etc.

This is really confusing because we again have this studio/provider/consumer
structure like with the video content but also there's custom physical
hardware, there are live service elements, the consumer payment is pay per view
and revshared between publisher and operator. Konami actually charges the
arcade 15Â¢ per credit or something, I think Sega sells it up front but it's the
same model.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Oh wow! So resales really would directly impact their bottom line huh unless
there's some DRM forcing this payment to Konami somehow.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I think there is also a monthly fee for the live service and updates.

Yeah so online features are a big thing, some games refuse to boot without a
server connection, others have limited features and severely limited song
selection as well as no access to unlocks and player save data. Operating
legitimately during the life of the live service is poor if not impossible. At
end of life, I think offline patches/kits are common, but these often are not
the sum of everything that has been, taking away licensed pop music and
whatever else they decide.

For example, Chunithm went through a cabinet change to become Chunithm NEW,
with the old cabinets getting stuck on an offline patch of the latest version
pre-NEW, Paradise Lost. For R1 Japan, these cabinets have very low value,
especially if they're getting the new ones, so they shipped them to America
where Chunithm was not previously operated by them. The song library is
severely gutted, and especially with the lack of save data, no enthusiast plays
it.

This could create a pressure to acquire the new cabinets where there is demand,
or push players to the games that are available, but emulation is an option.
You can actually skip the cabinet part altogether and use a third party
controller to play on data.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Ah yeah that's the type of DRM I figured.

Emulation just works by ripping the data as it goes over the network and
parsing it in a separate machine?

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Off the drive mainly, but third party servers are made too. The game program is
modified to add back in songs whose licenses lapsed, subvert online checks,
etc.

There are a lot of capital costs, secondary markets, tertiary markets, and
copyright that make everything complex and slow moving. However, I would assert
that emulation and modification has set up a condition that would make a
legitimate entry to the US market less successful. Like, maybe people will be
moral and stop the frequent dumps if access were expanded, and additional
interest will have been generated, but it just seems like too much uncertainty
for the publisher to deal with.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Apple shows you can push the jailbreak game pretty far, seems like this is
still lax at the moment.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Oh boy you have no idea: the encryption, the VPN routers, the multiple types of
security dongles, it's clear that they have responded to activity multiple
times lol

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Ah! Nevermind that is pretty advanced.

Ya it's a bit unfortunate that there is enough hype to make it profitable, but
now they're competing against free which is just impossible.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Yeah, and especially if someone bought a controller instead of going to a
public cab if you got the new $400 chuni controller (probably expensive to ship
too), and then NEW came out 5 minutes from you, would you _really_ ditch your
home device and pay $1/play?

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

No way!

I'm really starting to see why studio execs are so freaked out about piracy,
since it fundamentally changes the competitive landscape in a way that doesn't
favor how they currently do business.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Also! There are simulators, free clones of games that don't even require an
arcade machine or any hacking.

I don't know much about Clone Hero, Stepmania, and all the JP rhythm ones but
they seem more if not completely legal and then you can have community features
where people transcribe the stuff that comes out in the original game.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Oh really? I would've though the music licensing is still weird for that,
similar to Osu! Transcription also seems like a whole separate minefield wow.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

<https://youtu.be/xXN9adKkmQE> hey look DrumMania licensed song and level data
from the latest version available in DTXMania

I'd actually argue in favor of the chart _videos_ generally, I feel like
they're not a replacement and encourage exploration, interest, habit forming
the dancerush charts are taken from direct video output on legitimate cabs.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Sure, those are a very different experience than playing directly

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

But when it's something playable on a sim that gives feedback and score... and
then from a rights perspective too, is the level design data copyrightable?

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

I would think so yes

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I would think so too, but apparently like board game rules aren't. Rules _text_
may be, "mechanics" might be the word I heard.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Oh wow that's interesting! Wonder what the distinction is/where the line is
drawn.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

You too can clone monopoly with unique art assets!

But yeah, you get this weird place where all the parts are mostly copied, but
by different people with different scales and distribution methods. DTX[^5] is
especially funny to me because the charts are usually very dependant on the
song, driven by the composition of the music. There is some room for
originality, but it's totally possible that someone could make a chart for an
anime song that's exactly the same as what Konami makes when they get to
licensing it.

[^5]:
    A rhythm game played with a lifelike electric drumset controller, where
    the maps are like actually playing the drums to songs

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

brb about to make a game whose rules depend on the order of every single word
in the rulebook so i can copyright the "mechanics"
too

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

So _is_ Konami the one that has the copyright there? Is it different if we
assume it was copied/inspired rather than derived from the original source?

<https://youtu.be/dwcb0YasK68> side note I enjoyed this one a good bit; note
the distribution method of the video being unlicensed music working over
YouTube's special agreements :P

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

I think this would fall under the cleanroom exceptions as understood by the
UNIX clone of MINIX and Google v Oracle[^6]. Not entirely sure how that works
but iirc deriving the same thing from the same source idea is fine and not
copyright-infringing.

[^6]: Don't quote me on this I am not that good at computing legal history

Also YouTube music LMAO

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I remember Twitch and Facebook Live released music things at similar times

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

side side note every music platform is kinda inconsistent in their metadata
tagging/normalization

Wait FB has music stuff?? I had no idea, wouldn't be surprised tho their app is
huge

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Twitch had a whole thing where they made deals with tons of indie publishers
and added an integrated player and tried to create an environment that could
supply music with rights acquired like. It seems like a lot of effort and mone,
but people hated it because you couldn't broadcast whatever pop music they
already wanted to listen to, also DMCA strikes.

Meanwhile I think Facebook managed a YouTube-style deal with all the major
labels for their live platform, idk if there's revshare or flat cuts or pay per
play or view or what but it's like YouTube's thing to me, sounds impossible,
probably nearly is, completely changes copyright in practice in a single space,
but the space is really big it kinda feels like there's reform that was needed
to match a culture, but a private company got it done first, and thus lowered
the pressure people talk about adoption and economies of scale with youtube
competitors, but their rights agreements seem like a big part of what let's you
just kinda upload whatever and have it usually be fine.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Oh yeah that Twitch thing!! dogdogHS still gets hit by mutes for playing from
Spotify playlists lol

(also big agree on the impossibility of YouTube licensing agreement, probably
only works because they're so big)

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

just on the vods tho?

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

ya

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Classic

And another example, it's not like it cuts music sales, people don't go to his
stream for free Katy Perry. But also, he definitely doesn't have the rights, is
aiming to entertain thousands for commercial gain, and presumably if he's
playing it it enhances the show and thus makes him money

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

it does enhance the show and he is making bank

Going back to YouTube, there are still DMCA strikes, but yeah most of the time
it's just "hey there was music playing in this so I can't make money off it
anymore also we'll link to the original song" and the original video stays up
at least.

Still not a great automated system if someone really does have rights or gets
hit with bogus claims or is using it under fair use.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Yeah, compared to mass piracy using your platform and delayed takedown notices
you might pass to users and compelled moderation it's just done like it's still
annoying and abused often, but you don't have to be careful in order to
actually do things perfectly, and you don't get usually hit with stuff later,
and the ads/link offer a middle ground solution with no custom (expensive?)
negotiation needed for every individual case.

This has trailed off a lot lol but yeah, arts economics and rights are weird.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

lol yup may be my fault a little for all the random questions :P

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Oh I trailed down plenty of my own rabbit holes too

I'm sure though even with other structures besides Capitalism, valuing art is a
hard thing to do

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Oh totally, I have no idea what would be a better alternative. Just the logical
conclusions of all this are wild

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I feel like when you see those government arts funds, they tend to have a
specific cultural goal in mind, and competition for their money. This couldmove
art out of the true culture and put value on presentation rather than
substance.

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

what even is "true culture" anyways? ~~anime feet~~ THIS IS A JOKE

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

Man of culture screenshot ðŸ¤£

The market system does this too I guess, but it's more random because the
people with the money aren't all together :P

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

"People with the money aren't all together" I have some bad news for you buddy

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I'm pretty sure there's at least two groups, one of them is Disney, I'll get
back to you on the other.

Excited to buy my internet plan that comes bundled with cable tv, Disney+,
ESPN+, and whatever the third thing that's still Disney is. I love choice.

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

IT'S HULU?! c'mon man...

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Hulu is also Disney??? that's wild

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

I think it's a comarketing thing, not a firm corporate structure relationship

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

"I can't believe there are so many streaming services we have to pay for"
they're all just Disney in different hats

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

<figure><video controls
src="https://cdn.discordapp.com/attachments/833922582990159902/993499667998441532/20644e8617461f5c75fbe182fd56d00a.mp4
" style="width: 50%"></video></figure>

I do not have the rights to host this audio luckily I'm not please buy terraria
and the terraria soundtrack

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

Does TikTok? Does Discord? (Does my website linking to
Discord?)

</div><div><b>CS:</b></div><div class="cs">

TikTok seems to viral for anything to be stopped; Discord seems to big to be
convinced to check

</div><div><b>Jack:</b></div><div class="jack">

And my website is too small to matter :P

</div>

</hr>

Ok that was it, sorry for the fizzling-out conclusion, thanks for reading all the way through hope you got something from it!

<style>
/**
 * Mobile first
 */
div.jack {
  border-left: 4px solid #55c3dc;
  padding-left: 0.7778em;
}
div.cs {
  border-left: 4px solid #17820d;
  padding-left: 0.7778em;
}

/**
 * 16.1 Mobile Large 620px
 */
@media screen and (min-width: 38.75em) {
  div.jack div.cs {
    margin-left: -1em;
  }
}

/**
 * 16.2 Tablet Small 740px
 */
@media screen and (min-width: 46.25em) {
  div.jack div.cs {
		margin-left: -1.05em;
		padding-left: 0.85em;
	}
}

/**
 * 16.3 Tablet Large 880px
 */
@media screen and (min-width: 55em) {
  div.jack div.cs {
		margin-left: -1.0909em;
		padding-left: 0.9091em;
	}
}

/**
 * 16.4 Desktop Small 955px
 */
@media screen and (min-width: 59.6875em) {
  div.jack div.cs {
		margin-left: -1.3333em;
		padding-left: 1.1111em;
	}
}

/**
 * 16.5 Desktop Medium 1100px
 */
@media screen and (min-width: 68.75em) {
  div.jack div.cs {
		margin-left: -1.05em;
		padding-left: 0.85em;
	}
}

/**
 * 16.6 Desktop Large 1240px
 */
@media screen and (min-width: 77.5em) {
	div.jack div.cs {
		margin-left: -1.0909em;
		padding-left: 0.9091em;
	}
}
</style>
