---
title: TA-ing
tags: daily thoughts, CMU
---

This semester, I'm a TA for [15-316, Software Foundations of Security and
Privacy](https://15316-cmu.github.io/2022/index.html) taught by [Matt
Fredrikson](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~mfredrik/), who's just an absolutely
phenomenal professor.

While I have taught the [Rust StuCo](https://rust-stuco.github.io/) at CMU for
a 2nd semester now, there are a couple of new duties involved in TA-ing that
I'd like to give thoughts on.

## Creating Homeworks

I am not very good at this (the Rust StuCo has had only around 2 "successful"
homeworks in its run so far). Fortunately, Prof. Fredrikson is _very_ good at
this, and has a bunch of material to draw from already having taught this
course a couple times before. He does most of the writeups, and the other TAs
help come up with most of the questions, but I _did_ help create a lot of the
infrastructure for a completely-new Lab 1 this semester, so that was fun, and
also a lot of time since I was learning things as I went along.

## Grading

This part was less strenuous than I thought. We divide up the workload pretty
evenly, and I've found some good gaps in my schedule where I can just plow
through all 60 students once I get into a groove. As a student taking this
course, I thought my answers were very clever and unique, and now I realize
everyone here is like that, which is good since that means the vast majority of
them are correct.

## Holding Office Hours

This part is the most interesting part of the job in my view. I get to interact
with students directly and try to get them to understand new subjects,
something I already had a bit of experience doing from tutoring at CMU. The
first couple weeks were extremely hectic, but now it seems people are coming
less, I think because there's less work? I'm not entirely sure, here's hoping
people come in more for this next lab...

<hr/>

In conclusion, TA-ing is a very enjoyable experience, especially since I'm
getting paid pretty OK for how much I'm putting in hourly. The professor is
nice, the students are smart, and the content is just good stuff that I can get
excited about.

Also **I'm back baby**, post hiatus over! Maybe! I'm still more active on other
platforms but I thought I might as well put something out here while I'm on
Fall Break since otherwise I just won't do it!
