---
title: Grad School Thoughts and a Blog Post That Resonated With Me
tags: daily thoughts
---

The scene: someone in the [CMU Discord](https://discord.gg/2NNhbFU), #scs
channel, posted a link to a [fairly cool article about a misuse of algorithmic
complexity in social sciences](https://www.alexirpan.com/2017/04/19/acss.html).
The writing was engaging, and I had time to kill, so I started reading [other
linked posts](https://www.alexirpan.com/2016/07/17/ml-sleep.html), and
eventually got around to reading their latest post, ["The 5 Year Update on
Skipping Grad School (and Whether I'd Recommend It)"](https://www.alexirpan.com/2021/04/07/grad-school-5years.html).

If you know me, or have seen my [early](2019-06-02-senior-research.html)
[posts](2019-04-08-opencv-chessboard-test.html) (or really even the existence
of the [AI](/tags/ai.html) and [CV](/tags/computer-vision.html) tags), you'll
know _really_ like AI and CV and potentially even be comfortable starting to do
research in those areas. In fact that's part of what I did for my internship at
Aerospace, and if things go flawlessly, at Facebook as well. And yet, I don't
find myself looking forward to doing a PhD or Grad School or really even doing
undergraduate research.

I think that's part of why Alex Irpan's post and especially its [prequel from
when he was an undergrad](https://www.alexirpan.com/2016/01/03/grad-school.html)
struck me. Here's an eloquent guy, who's done some pretty cool Reinforcement
Learning research with robots at Google for crying out loud, talking about a
similar feeling he was having as an undergrad. He put into words some of the
reasons why, even though I think research is super cool to get done and is very
nice to read, it can just get too overwhelming. Their writing is much more
engaging than I can replicate here, but if you too are at least considering
Grad School then I think both articles (and the ones he links to) are worth a
read.

After reading these, my current plan of "just try to go into industry with a
little undergrad research experience from a summer maybe and hope you can do
cool industry research as well" hasn't changed, and if anything seems even more
feasible. Even if I don't end up doing research, AI-adjacent SWE would be fun
as well, just a different set of problems to overcome.

<hr/>

"Wow a Saturday post??? ur wildin" ya u better know it ~~I just wanted to share
this article lol~~
